# Planetary Systems Project
I bought a book a while ago called "Dynamics of Planetary Systems" by Scott Tremaine. This project is my attempt at finding a new coding project for each section or two. My goal with this is to increase my coding skills while also working on (re)learning astrophysics (since I'm pretty rusty).
Not sure if this project will continue or make it very far, but I want to try a crack at at, especially since I like the topic itself.

Unfortunately, most of astronomy research uses Python from what I gather (obviously exceptions), so my projects will be in Python as well. It's not my favorite language, but I figure it's best to get some good practice in. Because Python isn't my favorite language, I imagine I will be using a few libraries that are not best suited for the tasks I plan on doing, strictly because I am not sure what libraries are best suited for any task. 

My plan for the general structure is to have a directory for each of the chapters of the book. There are 9 chapters for the book, so on the off change this project doesn't get abondoned, I'll have 9 directories. Each of these folders will have directories in them as well, which focus on each of the individual sections. THESE directories will contain the project idea I plan on working with for each section. My goal is to make each coding project relate to what the section is about without stepping too far outside of the scope of the section as well. Hopefully, this allows me to learn what is being said in the book, while also learning more about coding as well.

Similarly, for each of the sections, I plan on having a mark down that explains the program and my thoughts about what is happening. This will also contain some derivations that I felt like wanting to practice on. Later on, when a chapter is finished, I want to try my hand at solving all of the practice problems at the back of the book. I am not currently sure how hard these problems are, so we'll see how many of them I end up completing.

I think I will also be making my own helper python files to work with as well, for those that can apply to a lot of projects. An example of this is vectors, which store different vector classes. This might just be me trying desperately to hold on to OOP as best as I can, even when Python doesn't do a fantastic job (in my opinion) with it. I'm not sure how many files will be in the helpers directory, but I figured I'd make it just in case.
