# Section 1.7 - Multipole Expansion of a Potential
This section focuses on expanding the graviational potential for a massed body. It starts with centering the coordinate system to the center of mass, and pointing out how we define graviational potential between two points, and over an object. The potential is then expanded using a taylor series, which is then re-written using associated Legendre Polynomials and Spherical Harmonics. Using these relations, the book showcases the equations for the graviational monopole, dipole, and quadrapole. From here, the book focuses on the quadrapole and what it actually means. It shows that for prefectly spherical objects, this value is 0, but for oblate objects (like most celestial bodies) this is non-zero and positive. The book briefly ends by talking about how the quadrapole showcases what happens due to rotational flattening.

| Subsection of Document | Description of Subsection |
| -----------------------|---------------------------|
| [Self Imposed Exercises](#self-imposed-exercises) | An outline of any exercises I thought would be beneifical or fun to work through that relate to the section of the book, usually exercises I make for myself. |
| [Project Description](#project-description) | A description of the coding project I designed for this section of the book, as well as any relevant information I used. |
| [Reflecting Thoughts](#reflecting-thoughts) | Reflective thoughts about the chapter itself, the self imposed exercises I worked through, and the coding project I made for the section. |

## Self Imposed Exercises
This section is focused primarily on the various multipoles for the graviational potential, with heaviy emphasis on the quadrupole moment. The book mentions that these are found through observations and the inertia of the rotating body, and Appendix A tells you what the values of these moments are for each planet. A large reason that the quadrupole moment (and the other multipole moments as well) aren't easily determined, is because you need a density function for the object in order to find the quadrupole moment. 

I thought it would be fun to derive some of these quadrupole moments, and verify an approximation to these values. I was curious how the quadrupole moment changes with different density functions, and I also wanted to see how close I could get to the measured values. That's what this exercise ended up becoming (even if I did use it for the project itself). I used various different density functions, some fitted with real density distributes, and found the quadrupole moment through its definition. I then compared them to the actual values that have been measured.

### Oblate Spheriod Equation in Spherical Coordinates
Before jumping into the quadrupole moment, we need to do a little bit of work determining the bounds for the radial variable. We can make our lives a bit easier, as a body isn't just some random ellipsoid, it's more closely approximated through an oblated spherioid. This means that we can consider just two maximum radii (semi-major and semi-minor values) instead of three. Since a celestial body is usually rotating around a polar axis, the semi-major axis ends up being the equatorial radius and the smei-minor axis is the polar radius.

## Project Description
Text2

## Reflecting Thoughts
### Section Thoughts
This section was really rough, but was a very interestin read. The book mentions that the contents are for "graduate students and advanced undergrads" but I can confindently say I have never used Legendre polynomials or Spherical harmonics during my undergraduate career. This isn't to say I couldn't figure it out, it just required a bunch of extra reading and trying to figure out what these concepts even are. Oddly enough, the appendix in the back of the book was more helpful in understanding these concepts then looking them up on the internet. The internet was primarily focused on more math based definitions or electromagnitism. That being said, I did spend a while just trying to understand what the background was for this section.

The content itself was also pretty interesting, if hard to follow. Many equations tended to blow up in size and complexity, and had a lot of terms being shuffled around. I was mainly happy I was able to follow it as well as I did. That being said, there are some short comings to my knowledge about this section. We're reaching the point where trying to understand the background material to a decent extent is going to take a while. For example, I could focus an entire project just on Spherical harmonics or Legendre polynomials alone. However, I do not have the time to focus on these concepts too heavily. Because of this, I am trying to focus just on where they come from, and how they're defined. While I might not understand exactly how they are derived, that will have to be okay for now (especially since the appendix doesn't focus too heavily on it either). While I wish I could just learn everything, unfortunately there is a limit into how much I can while also trying to stay on topic. Overall, I liked this section a lot, even if it wasn't the most groundbreaking topic (although who knows? maybe it will become that later in the book).
