# Section 1.3 - Motion in the Kepler Orbit
This section compounds on the previous one by expanding on the ideas of Kepler orbit. The previous section talked about what the orbit looked like, but this section focused on how a particle actually moves inside this orbit. The section itself starts off with quickly mentioning Kepler's second and third law and using them to determine more properties about the orbit. We get a look into the period of an orbit, then get an earful of a lot of new definitions. We're introduced to the mean motion, mean anomaly, and eccentric anomaly. After this, the book does a lot of setting up equations and making relations for these new definitions (and introducing Kepler's equation) so that the fun part can happen. We take a brief aside to talk about the orbital averages and how to find them, and then transition into moving the equations of motion to a 2D plane and into a 3D coordinate system. A LOT of new terms are dropped here, but not used as the next section goes into solving equations for the position and velocity of a particle in orbit. The book mentions that you can do this the hard way with the 3D coordinate system, but the book uses Gauss's f and g functions to find these equations.

As per usual, I will first walk through any self imposed exercies I thought would be fun/benifical to me, talk about the coding project I made for this section, then end with my reflecting thoughts. More new to this section than the previous two is, I am going to add reflecting thoughts on the section itself as well as the project. My goal is to record my entire learning process thoughts and not just the coding part, as learning more astronomy is half of my goal for this. I will have to be careful, because there is a non-zero chance I'll just start complaining, but hey it's my project so my rules. That being said, I do want to try my best to keep this more centered around the learning part instead of the complaining part.

## Self Imposed Exercises

## Description of Project

## Reflecting Thoughts
Alright, so this first paragraph will center around my thoughts about reading through/learning the chapter and the next few will be about my project and other general ideas. Because of this, I am writing this as soon as I am done reading the section (and understanding it) so there will be a large break between this one and the next one. I am not entirely sure how this will work, but if I don't like it, I'll change it for next time.

I found this section to be significally more digestable than the previous section. In the previous seciton, I really felt like the jumps in the steps were a lot harder to grasp. However, this section connceted a lot better in terms of what was being demonstrated. I imagine this is one of three things: the book is getting better at representing its material, I'm getting less rusty at the physics behind the skips so it's easier to follow, or the book is building on itself rather than assumed knowledge so there are less gaps for me to need to fill in. I believe it's probably the latter 2, but I wouldn't call this book perfect either. There are many times where the book mentions "this is the case" for certain explanations, and I'm sure this is because the book is advertised for "advanced undergrads, graduate students, and researchers new to the field" (as per the back of the book), but it still annoys me. The other thing I want to point out is the notation, as I don't exactly know how standard it is. Whenever I am confused on a topic, I look up reference material to help work me through it, and when doing so, the notation is always different. For example, in the book, Kepler's equation is $\ell = u - e\sin(u)$ while in most resources online I found it was written as $M = E - e\sin(E)$. I suppose this isn't a huge deal, but something I've notived. Anyway, into the coding project.
